what does a lighted wrench on your
dashboard or MID screen mean?
The lighted wrench is part of your vehicle's maintenance minder system which notifies
you when your vehicle needs service
maintenance minder measures and records
sensor readings at various points in
your vehicle to determine what is the
optimal time to have it serviced
when you're engine runs at higher
temperatures during short trips frequent
starts and stops or hilly terrain the
oil life will deplete faster than driving
under more normal conditions at lower
rpms
Oil is a major contributor to your
engine's performance and longevity
if you drive the vehicle with
insufficient or deteriorated oil the
engine may fail or be damaged
when the oil life reaches fifteen
percent
you'll see the maintenance minder
indicator wrench turn on
along with the wrench indicator a
maintenance code will appear on your
dash informing you of which items need
servicing
when the oil life reaches five percent
the service is due now
if the only life reaches zero percent
the service is overdue any will show the
number of miles overdue with a negative sign in front of it
this number will flash until you have
the vehicle serviced
your vehicle also uses codes to help you
decipher what is required for service
these codes consist of a main code by
itself
or a main and the sub code
the codes may seem confusing but in your
owners manual there is a page under the
maintenance section with all the codes
the main code A indicates that you
just need to replace the engine oil
while B indicates you need to replace
the engine oil, oil filter,
inspect the front and rear brakes and
check the parking brake adjustment
etcetera
the sub codes are additional maintenance
items that need to be checked or serviced
with the main code.
these codes may vary depending on your
model and trim,
check your owners manual for your
vehicle specific codes
so for example if the code A2 is
displayed on your dash your dealer will
only need to change the oil and replace
your interior air filter
Other service facilities may have you
replace the oil filter unnecessarily
and may not even replace your cabin
filter
honda dealers try to ensure that not
only is your vehicle efficient but so is
your service
the maintenance minder system is also
intelligent enough to group your service
items together so you don't have to go
to the dealers often
for example if the drive belt
inspection is scheduled to be done at
thirty thousand miles but you oil life
percentage will reach the end of its
life at twenty nine thousand
miles
the maintenance minder system will move
the belt inspection out so you won't
have to come back for service in another
thousand miles
Visit your local Honda dealer when you
see the little wrench icon
or stop by any honda dealer that offers
express service for quick easy and
affordable service